README.md, before:

# derulo

Give your co-workers a quick information security lesson by derulo'ing them. Maybe next time they will remember to lock their machine.

##### What?

The script instantly changes the desktop's background of the machine it's run on.

##### Why?

If your workplace is friendly enough to pull off pranks on each other and some of you care about information security, the one and only Jason Derulo will be a perfect reminder that an unattended computer should be locked.

## macOS

Tested on High Sierra and Mojave. Admin privileges are not required. Common raster image types, such as JPG, PNG, BMP, GIF (they'll be still), etc. are supported.

1. Open Terminal.app

   - press `cmd + space`,
   - type `terminal`,
   - press `return`.

2. Run:

   ```bash
   bash <(curl -s derulo.me/mac)
   ```

   or:

   ```bash
   curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s
   ```

   custom image:

   ```bash
   curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s <url_to_img>

   # Example:
   # curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s https://html5box.com/html5gallery/images/Waves_1024.jpg
   ```

   custom image from disk:

   ```bash
   curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s file://$HOME/<path_to_img>

   # Example:
   # curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s file://$HOME/Downloads/derulo.bmp
   # with absolute path:
   # curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s file:///Users/john/Downloads/derulo.bmp
   ```

   _Please note that the script sometimes has to be run twice._

3. There may appear a warning pop-up, which you just have to dismiss by pressing `OK`.

   ![Warning pop-up](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/amrwc/derulo/master/assets/warning-pop-up.png)

## Windows

CMD doesn't have curl-like program to download a script and images, therefore this method is more verbose. The PowerShell command for Windows 10 will be more succinct, but most likely still too long to enter manually.

### CMD/Batch script

Tested on Windows 7 and Windows 10. Admin privileges are not required.

1. Download any `.bmp` image ([example derulo.bmp](http://nsfpl.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/jason-derulo.bmp)), call it `derulo.bmp`.

2. Open CMD

   - press `Win + R`,
   - type `cmd`,
   - press `return`.

3. Run:

   ```PowerShell
   :: NOTE: The script assumes that the image is in the default 'Downloads' directory.
   reg add "HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Control Panel\Desktop" /v Wallpaper /t REG_SZ /d "" /f
   reg add "HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Control Panel\Desktop" /v Wallpaper /t REG_SZ /d "C:\Users\%USERNAME%\Downloads\derulo.bmp" /f

   :: Runs the 'update' dll multiple times to ensure an immediate effect
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters

   :: Clear screen
   cls
   ```

**Alternatively**

1. Save the `windows.bat` script locally.

2. Download any `.bmp` image ([example derulo.bmp](http://nsfpl.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/jason-derulo.bmp)), call it `derulo.bmp`. Make sure it's placed in the same directory as the `windows.bat` script.

3. Double-click the `windows.bat` script, or run it through CMD by typing the script's name after navigating to its directory.

## Caveats

- CMD/Batch version
  - doesn't allow for an automated image/script download,
  - only supports bitmaps (`.bmp` images),
  - leaves the `derulo.bmp` image behind.

Commit message:

Start implementing a PowerShell version, update readme

README.md, after:

# derulo

Give your co-workers a quick information security lesson by derulo'ing them. Maybe next time they will remember to lock their machine.

##### What?

The script instantly changes the desktop's background of the machine it's run on.

##### Why?

If your workplace is friendly enough to pull off pranks on each other and some of you care about information security, the one and only Jason Derulo will be a perfect reminder that an unattended computer should be locked.

## macOS

Tested on High Sierra and Mojave. Admin privileges are not required. Common raster image types, such as JPG, PNG, BMP, GIF (they'll be still), etc. are supported.

_Please note that the script sometimes has to be run twice._

1. Open Terminal.app

   - press `cmd + space`,
   - type `terminal`,
   - press `return`.

2. Run:

   ```bash
   bash <(curl -s derulo.me/mac)
   ```

   or:

   ```bash
   curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s
   ```

   custom image:

   ```bash
   curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s <url_to_img>

   # Example:
   # curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s https://html5box.com/html5gallery/images/Waves_1024.jpg
   ```

   custom image from disk:

   ```bash
   curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s file://$HOME/<path_to_img>

   # Example:
   # curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s file://$HOME/Downloads/derulo.bmp
   # with absolute path:
   # curl -s derulo.me/mac | bash -s file:///Users/john/Downloads/derulo.bmp
   ```

3. There may appear a warning pop-up, which you just have to dismiss by pressing `OK`.

   ![Warning pop-up](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/amrwc/derulo/master/assets/warning-pop-up.png)

## Windows

CMD doesn't have curl-like program to download a script and images, therefore this method is more verbose. The PowerShell version is more succinct, but still too long to enter manually.

### PowerShell

_Please note that in some more restricted environments the PowerShell method may not work. In such case, try the CMD/Batch method._

<!-- NOTE: A PowerShell-only method goes here.

**Alternatively** -->

This method utilises PowerShell to download the required files, but still relies on the Batch script to mitigate potential restrictions around `.ps` files.

1. Open CMD

   - press `Win + R`,
   - type `cmd`,
   - press `return`.

2. Run:

   ```PowerShell
   powershell Invoke-RestMethod -Uri http://nsfpl.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/jason-derulo.bmp -OutFile derulo.bmp
   powershell Invoke-RestMethod -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/amrwc/derulo/master/windows.bat -OutFile windows.bat
   windows.bat
   ```

### CMD/Batch script

Tested on Windows 7 and Windows 10. Admin privileges are not required.

1. Download any `.bmp` image ([example derulo.bmp](http://nsfpl.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/jason-derulo.bmp)), call it `derulo.bmp`.

2. Open CMD

   - press `Win + R`,
   - type `cmd`,
   - press `return`.

3. Run:

   ```PowerShell
   :: NOTE: The script assumes that the image is in the default 'Downloads' directory.
   reg add "HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Control Panel\Desktop" /v Wallpaper /t REG_SZ /d "" /f
   reg add "HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Control Panel\Desktop" /v Wallpaper /t REG_SZ /d "C:\Users\%USERNAME%\Downloads\derulo.bmp" /f

   :: Runs the 'update' dll multiple times to ensure an immediate effect
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters
   start "" /b rundll32.exe user32.dll,UpdatePerUserSystemParameters

   :: Clear screen
   cls
   ```

**Alternatively**

1. Save the `windows.bat` script locally.

2. Download any `.bmp` image ([example derulo.bmp](http://nsfpl.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/jason-derulo.bmp)), call it `derulo.bmp`. Make sure it's placed in the same directory as the `windows.bat` script.

3. Double-click the `windows.bat` script, or run it through CMD by typing the script's name after navigating to its directory.

## Caveats

- CMD/Batch version
  - doesn't allow for an automated image/script download,
  - only supports bitmaps (`.bmp` images),
  - leaves the `derulo.bmp` image behind.
